How much does the average person actually value freedom? Not as much as one would think. In psychology, societies are generally classified into two types: individualistic or collectivist. Those who live in individualistic countries may believe that personal freedoms are paramount above all else, but those living in collectivist societies often disagree, valuing communal safety over personal freedom. Indeed, the balance between freedom and safety is a precarious one, shifting from culture to culture: people living in western countries prefer freedom while those in eastern countries value safety.
To begin, most western countries are individualistic, willing to forgo the comfort of safety for personal freedoms. In America, the battle over mask mandates best represents an individualistic culture’s emphasis on freedom over safety. During the COVID-19 pandemic, all fifty states in the US have at some point enforced a mask mandate, requiring people to wear masks for public safety. As a result, an anti-mask movement arguing that mandates are an unacceptable breach of personal freedoms has spread across the nation. Thousands have attended protests and even more have signed petitions rallying against the mandates – disregarding their personal safety and risking infection or violence for freedom of choice. Citizens in other individualistic nations parallel this behavior, fighting for freedom even in the face of danger. In Canada for example, truckers mounted a weeks-long protest against vaccine mandates despite widespread retaliatory civilian violence and government pressure. Clearly, the individualistic cultures of the west foster a population concerned more about freedom than safety.
Contrastingly, eastern collectivist cultures value safety over freedom. In the deeply collectivist culture of China for example, citizens give up unfathomable freedoms most westerners take for granted. In recent years, the Chinese Communist Party has begun to use a highly complex AI network to track and monitor its citizens in the name of safety. This program uses facial recognition to label billions of people, using its observations to adjust a person’s social credit score — a number that decides how much freedom and opportunity one receives. When I visited China two years ago, this sentiment of safety over freedom was suffocating. At dinner with a family friend, he explained to me how the CCP’s AI network was the ultimate guarantee of safety, railing against the “selfish and individualistic American emphasis on freedoms.” Other collectivist nations, such as Japan and India, also have strong central governments which impose laws and policies restricting the personal freedoms of their citizens. Over 70% of the world population lives in these societies, conforming with the belief that safety is more important than freedom. Overall, collectivist cultures make up a huge population who don’t place much importance on freedoms, preferring the comfort of safety instead.
In conclusion, despite widespread cries for freedom and liberty around the world, people overwhelmingly value safety over personal freedoms. Citizens of individualistic nations sacrifice their safety to fight for freedom, but they pale in number to the vast majority of humanity living in collectivist societies who prioritize communal safety over individual freedoms. Overall, the mass majority of people prefer safety over freedom, reflecting their collectivist cultures, but they are contrasted by people living in individualistic societies, who are opposite in their beliefs.
